Create Chapter5.MD (#6)
SanliFaez/OS4Physicists: CourseDevelopment/Week5/Chapter5.MD

# Course Development Week 5
Course Development Week 5 for the Open Science Course for physics students at graduate level. This document is based on the Syllabus.MD.

Date: Dec/07/2022

Name: Hendrik Snijder @hendelhendel

Open tasks @SanliFaez @erikvansebille
+ Feedback on lecture-tutorial distribution of topics
+ Feedback on lecture format
+ Feedback on tutorial format

## Goal: public engagement: story-telling and presentation; activism and trust in scientists

> After this week, one understands the role, responsibilities and interaction of scientists with scientific communities and the general public. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After this week, students understand the role, responsibilities and interaction of scientists with scientific communities and the general public. 
```

> Students have to give a presentation about their other assignments using skills learned in the course. 

Reviewer: How are we going to do this practically? Each student gives one presentation? Perhaps better to call it a 'pitch', so that it's short? A bit like https://www.uu.nl/en/research/breaking-science?

Also, can the students choose which other assignment? Or do you have a particular one in mind?

Author: Yes, I agree, lets call it a pitch. Later in the chapter it is called a like that as well.

Reviewer: So let's change then to 'pitch'
```suggestion
Students have to give a pitch about their other assignments using skills learned in the course. 
```

> Further, the studends are able to formulate their opinion in a discussion on the role a scientist must take in a public debate.

Reviewer: 'discussion' sounds rather vague? Make that more specific?

Author: What about:
Further, the studends are able to formulate their opinion on the role a scientist must take in society. Suported by arguments learned in class they fromulate statements. By taking into account different stakes in the public debate, they can refelect critically on their own on other viewpoint.

Reviewer: Yep, good idea. Please incorporate that then
```suggestion
Further, the students are able to formulate their opinion on the role a scientist must take in society, supported by arguments learned in class. By taking into account different stakes in the public debate, they can individually reflect critically on other viewpoints.
```

Author: Not on their own viewpoint?

## Keywords student familiarity check week 5

> Some of the keywords in syllabs.MD are supposed to be new, while some are most probably familiar for students.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some of the keywords in [the syllabus](https://github.com/SanliFaez/OS4Physicists/blob/main/Syllabus_202x.md#week-5-public-engagement-story-telling-and-presentation-activism-and-trust-in-scientists) are probably familiar for students, while some others are new.
```

|**New Concepts**|**Familiar Concepts**|
|----------------|---------------|
|How storytelling works|Metaphors|

> |Science communication and journalism|Communicating uncertainty|

Reviewer: Do you really think communicating uncertainty is familiar? What I mean with it, is how you can communicate that for example quantum computers are available anytime between 2030 and 2050. That is an uncertainty, but the general public may think scientists are simply guessing

Reviewer: > What do you think of inviting students from, e.g., economy, history or law-department and let them have a conversation with physics students. In this way the students experience how it feels to bridge between fields.

Haha, that is a cool idea! May be difficult to organise, though (why would students from other fields attend?). But we can at least try something like this?

|Activism||
|trust in science||
|Bounds of expertise||
|Academic social contract||
|Narratives and framing||

> |Difficult to reach audience||

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Difficult to reach audiences||
```

|Process and outcome||

## Lecture: Week 5

**Preparation:** Read article about how physics is represented in Dutch newspapers. https://jcom.sissa.it/archive/20/07/JCOM_2007_2021_A02

**Part 1** A short “classic” lecture of 25 min on:\
Academic social contract\
Bounds of expertise\
Naratives and framing\

> trust in science\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Trust in science\
```

Difficulties to reach audience\

> process and outcome\

Reviewer: Not sure what 'process and outcome' means, in this content

Reviewer: So remove it?
```suggestion
```

> trust in science\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Trust in science
```

**Part 2** Guest lecture & Discussion (60 min)\
On representation of physics in the Netherlands\

> Lecture by e.g. Julia Cramer (Leiden), followed up by a plenary discussion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lecture by e.g. [Julia Cramer (Leiden University)](https://www.universiteitleiden.nl/en/staffmembers/julia-cramer#tab-1), followed up by a plenary discussion.
```

> 

Reviewer: How would we organise such a plenary discussion with >60(?) students?

Reviewer: Do you already have an idea about this? Or leave it as a question now?

## Tutorial Week 5: What is the role of a scientist in society?\
(2x 60 min)
\
**Topics in tutorial:**\
Metaphors | Communicating uncertainty | possible roles of a scientist

### Tutorial format
+ **Assignment objective**

> Students practice presenting and express their points of view, by reflecting on their role as a future scientist. They will use metaphors to communicate topics of their bachelor research. 

Reviewer: But not every student will be a 'future scientist'; and we certainly don't want to convey that expectation! Perhaps add 'or citizen'?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Students practice presenting and express their points of view, by reflecting on their role as a future scientist or citizen. They will use metaphors to communicate topics of their bachelor research. 
```

+ **Possible Assignments**
Students can choose between:
++ *A plenary discussion*\
Students are devided in groups of 8. In the first our of the tutorial session, each group will prepare 5 statements for a plenary debate. 
The statements should anwer questions such as: ...\

> **TODO:** what type of questions need to be answerd?\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Scientists should never work with industry partners
- Scientists should stay away from politics
- Every scientists should be able to explain their research to a fourteen-year-old high-school student

```

For every statement, their should be arguments formulated aganst it and in favor of the statement.\

In the second hour of the tutorial all statements go in a (virtual) jar. Five of them will be selected at random.
After that, the group bringing in this statement will introduce it in a few words and the debate wil start (10 min). 
To keep the discussion running, the prepered arguments can be trown in.

++ *A Pitch*\

> Students present a pitch of 3 min, to explain why, their bachelor thesis is relevant for society. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Students present a pitch of 3 min, to explain why their bachelor thesis is relevant for society. 
```

> The first hour can be used for preparations. In the second part, all pitchers come to gether to do their pitch. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first hour can be used for preparations. In the second part, all pitchers come together to do their pitch. 
```

\
\

> **TODO:** How should these assignments be graded?

Reviewer: Weren't we going for pass/fail throughout? So that any student who shows reasonable participation in the tutorial will get a pass?

Author: A well, that will solve the grading problem! I agree with the pass/fail.

For the students to get more insight in their performence, teachers can provide them with some feedback. What do you think?

+ Use of methaphores
+ Communicating uncertainty in a clear way

> + Reflect on personal role as a scientist

Reviewer: What are these three lines about?

Author: These lines are about the grading. So if we use the pass/fail system, one have to make sure that the students show these 3 points.
